___

layout: page
title: "Blog 4 - LAMP Stack and iOS 14"
date: 2020-10-01 08:59:30 -0000
categories: Jekyll Senior-Design

___

    So far in this semester, I have learned how to create and clone a repository on GitHub. In addition, I became introduced to Docker and installing packages using command line via the “apt-get install” command. Using this information and Ubuntu’s operating system, I was able to put up a webpage running on Apache web server, thus completing the first lab; LAMP Stack.
    
    I also learned about how to manage and utilize a database in a business environment. Which includes making use of the cardinalities, primary and foreign keys, and relationships between entities, associative entities, and their attributes.
    On a more personal basis, I installed Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order and was distraught to find out all the time I spent benchmarking my graphics card to reach a stable overclock was put to waste when the game pushed the graphics card too far and crashed. Luckily, but at the cost of a few more game-crashes, I was able to get the game running smoothly by just dropping the voltage to the graphics card’s Memory Clock by 10 Mhz. Thus, I am now able to enjoy the game at it’s max settings (the graphics are pure eye-candy) without any more crashes or frame-drops.
    
    In other news, Apple launched it’s fourteenth iteration of it’s iOS operating system. iOS 14 adds widget functionality and other quality-of-life improvements. However, I chose not to update my iPhone’s operating system as I prefer to “jailbreak” my devices allowing me to customize and tweak my device as I see fit; lifting the unnecessary restrictions set by Apple. 
    
    Jailbreaking has become more and more difficult with each update as Apple patches any exploits in their operating system that jailbreak developers can take advantage of making jailbreaking more of a niche’ hobby and less-common as it once was. However, I have decided against switching to a different phone or updating to the latest iOS as I have been using iPhones for so long it feels strange to switch to a different device and the freedom jailbreaking allows, makes it worth the wait for the jailbreak community to release a new jailbreak method before updating. 
    -Brent Estores
