___

layout: page
title: "Blog 1 - Nvidia's 3000 Series"
date: 2020-09-03 08:59:30 -0000
categories: Jekyll Senior-Design

___

  Hello CIT 480 world, welcome to my blog! This past week I opened a GitHub account and learned how to create a repository on GitHub’s site. After creating the repository, I installed Ruby and then Jekyll. I then used Jekyll to create the config files needed to create a GitHub page. Afterwards, using the “vi” command in GitBash I edited the Gemfile file to uncomment line 15 “gem "github-pages", group: :jekyll_plugins”. However this caused a 404 error on my blog so I ended up reverting the edit which fixed the 404 error. Thus, my blog was finally up and running, however I was far from done; the layout of the site was all over the place and was a total mess. I decided to ignore this for now and attempt to create a blog post.

   Again using the “vi” command I created a test blog and pushed it to the repository. However, when I clicked on the blog’s link I got a 404 error. That is when I noticed any .md file within my _posts directory all had the same 404 error. I did some Bing-ing (yes not Google) and found a tip on Stack Overflow that suggested changing the index.markdown file to index.html. Which did not work. 

  So I switched to Youtube and luckily the first video at the top of the search results had the solution. I had to change the name of the repository to match part of the URL. In this case, I changed the name of the repository from “brentlab” to “bestores.github.io”. This not only solved the layout issue but also fixed the 404 errors which is how you are now reading this blog post.  

   For those wondering, I use Bing over Google because Bing gives you a point for every search which you can redeem for different prizes like an Amazon gift card. There used to be a site called, BingPong, that took advantage of an exploit in Bing to give you extra points and boy, did I take advantage of that site. However, Microsoft eventually caught on and BingPong was taken down. However, I still use Bing because free stuff just for using a search engine sounds like an excellent deal to me. 

Well, I guess that’s it for now, welcome (again) to my blog!
-Brent Estores
