___

layout: page
title: "Blog 3 - Nvidia's 3000 Series (continued)"
date: 2020-09-25 08:59:30 -0000
categories: Jekyll Senior-Design

___

  This week saw the next Graphics Processing Unit from Nvidia’s new 3000 series of graphics card and just like last week’s release, this week’s was a major debacle with many would-be consumers suspecting that Nvidia is purposely drip-feeding stock to consumers and retailers to artificially inflate their supply-and-demand. 
  In addition, Sony’s Playstation 5 also launched this week with similar results. A shortage of stock left many walking away empty-handed and disappointed. However, this seems to be a recurring trend with next-gen releases which is why I don’t even attempt to get new-generation consoles until they are more readily available.
  In related news, I’m proud to announce that I was finally able to reach a stable overclock for my current graphics card, the Nvidia Geforce GTX 1660 Ti. I am very proud of my personal computer as I built it myself (with some help) and its able to run the current generation of games at their highest settings. Compared to my old laptop that I used for about a decade. I actually had spent more on that laptop then my current personal computer but pirated some software that I shouldn’t have forcing me to make use of my google-fu to try and find a fix. Unfortunately, I just made things worse and had to reboot the laptop back to factory settings. Furthermore, I didn’t have the technical know-how (this was before I decided to Major in Information Technology) and didn’t realize I had to reinstall the necessary drivers and BIOS, basically crippling my laptop; going from 200+ Frames Per Second (FPS) on my games’ highest settings to barely hitting 30 Frames Per Second on the games’ lowest settings.
  My next upgrade I have planned for my PC is to add two more sticks for 16 GB Random Access Memory to complement the 16 gigs I currently have. I also want those RAM sticks to RGB capability for the aesthetics. Along with the RAM sticks I also, want to install some RGB (I like pretty lights) fans to better improve the airflow in my build which might also let me overclock my graphics card and Central Processing Unit even further. 

-Brent Estores  
