___

layout: page
title: "Blog 10 - From Mid to Low to Mid Again"
date: 2020-11-20 08:59:30 -0000
categories: Jekyll Senior-Design

___

 Hello and welcome back to my blog. Today, I figured I will continue my unexpected trend of picking up from where I left off in my previous blog post, which is taking advantage of Black Friday (Happy Thanksgiving!) and Cyber Monday deals to upgrade my personal computer. I built my personal computer only around two years ago now but already technology has advanced so far that my once “mid-tier” personal computer build has been knocked down a couple pegs or so. 

 This is due (almost begrudgingly) to the advent of Sony and Microsoft’s next generation consoles, new central processing units (AMD recently released a new central processing unit, the Zen 3 that apparently puts all of Intel’s central processing units to shame), and Nvidia’s new and immensely sought-after graphics processing units: the RTX 3000 series (RTX meaning the graphics processing unit features ray-tracing technology). I was actually watching a tech demo featuring Marvel’s Spider-Man that originally came out on the Playstation 4 but was remastered and released to coincide with the launch of the Playstation 5 and the difference in graphics was palpable to say the least. Taking advantage of ray-tracing the differences between the two versions of the same game blew me away. Minute details like the texture of Spider-Man’s suit, the fabric on Aunt May’s sweater, the lighting, reflections, shadows, and the city’s landscape made it seem like the game was given a complete overhaul.

  Unfortunately due to budgetary constraints and time constraints (I want to make longer use of my current graphics processing unit and central processing unit) I won’t be buying those brand-spanking shiney new tech. Instead I’ve chosen to go with more simpler upgrades. Also replacing the central processing unit seems inherently difficult to replace. I would first have to remove my Noctua cooler to get to the central processing unit and then apply new thermal paste. Thus, I’ve decided to take advantage of those holiday deals to max out my random access memory and buy some RGB fans which will help my personal computer run but will also make it more aesthetically pleasing to the eyes. 
 -Brent Estores
