___

layout: page
title: "Blog 9- Overclocking"
date: 2020-11-05 08:59:30 -0000
categories: Jekyll Senior-Design

___

 Hi, welcome to the next edition of my blog. Today I thought I could go over the subject of “Overclocking”. Overclocking means using software to push your computer’s hardware past it’s default factory limits. While this might sound dangerous, programs such as MSI Afterburner (a Graphics Processing Unit overclocking software) have made it impossible to cause any damage to your hardware while finding that stable overclock. This allows users to squeak out a considerable amount of improvement in performance out of their hardware and thus getting more bang for their buck. 

 Overclocking revolves around adding extra voltage in the form megahertz (MHz) to your hardware. However, it's not as simple as adding as much voltage as you can without overheating your computer. While you do have an eye on your computer’s temperature, you can still push your hardware too far without overheating. For example, in the case of overclocking a Graphics Processing Unit, an unstable overclock might run a game without overheating but you will end up with artifacting. Artifacting refers to when unusual or unexpected pixel colours appear on your c computer screen during heavy Graphics Processing Unit load resulting in either wrong colored pixels or anomalies on the screen. Therefore, overclocking can be very fickle. For example, I added one hundred thirty megahertz to the Core Clock of my Graphics Processing Unit, the GeForce GTX 1660 TI, and one thousand two hundred megahertz to the Memory Clock. 

 I achieved these numbers through numerous hours of rigorous benchmarking tests. Running these tests over-and-over until I finally found a “stable” overclock that didn’t crash the benchmarking software I was using or cause any artifacting. 

 I then put my overclock to work by playing a AAA game called, Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order and was able to complete the game without any problems. 
 Regards,
 -Brent Estores
