___

layout: page
title: "Blog 10- Generation Next"
date: 2020-11-13 08:59:30 -0000
categories: Jekyll Senior-Design

___

 Hi and welcome back to my blog. This week I thought about covering the next generation of gaming that is upon us. WIth Nvidia’s new Graphics Processing Unit and with the Playstation Five and Xbox Series X being released, the new generation of console gaming is here. With it, brings the advent of four thousand resolution gaming at a stable sixty frames per-second. The graphical displays we’ve seen so far from the launch games are slated to be released in-time with the new consoles. 
 
 One of these games is Spider-Man: Miles Morales. Both cinematic and gameplay footage can already be found online and the game looks absolutely gorgeous, with the gameplay segments seamlessly transitioning in and out of the cinematic sequences; it's almost like being given free reign over a Spider-Man movie. It’s not just the main assets (main characters, villains, etc.) that look great (assets are the models created and rendered in the game, for example the character’s, buildings, etc.) but every part of the game is a visual feast to the eyes. The attention given to every part of the game even down to the smallest details; such as a crack on the sidewalk, or the random passer-byes (that can even interact with the playable character, Miles Morales!) look amazing and detailed thanks to that four thousand resolution bringing this virtual iteration of New York City really come to life. 

 Unfortunately, I probably won’t be getting a new console anytime soon due to budgetary constraints; plus having one less distraction from school can be beneficial. However with Black Thursday and Cyber Monday coming up I thought it would be a good chance to buy some new parts for my personal computer. I’m planning on getting some RGB fans for better airflow and cooling, as well as some RGB RAM sticks so I can max out my computer’s Random Access Memory to thirty-two GB’s. 

  -Brent Estores
