___

layout: page
title: "Blog 8- Audio-Technica"
date: 2020-10-30 08:59:30 -0000
categories: Jekyll Senior-Design

___

 Hello, for this blog I thought I should continue my ongoing discussion on headphones. The headphones I personally use and would recommend to most people is the ATH-M50x from Audio-Technica. The ATH-M50x are the most critically acclaimed headphones from Audio-Technica, the ATH-M50x have been and continue to be praised by the top audio engineers and pro audio reviewers year after year. From the large aperture drivers, sound isolating ear cups and robust construction, the ATH-M50x provides an unmatched experience for the most critical audio professionals.

 Unlike the “Beats by Dre” series of headphones and its headlining “bass-boosting” feature, Audio-Technica went the other way with their series of headphones: pure clarity. This is why their headphones are so often recommended and widely-used in the industry: from inside a studio to a concert stage; there’s a high chance you’ll see these headphones being used. Audio-Technica’s ATH-M50x is the flagship model and only costs around one hundred fifty dollars
on Amazon (compared to Powerbeats Pro from the Beats by Dre series which costs around two hundred and fifty dollars) but I have also tried and owned some of Audio-Technica’s cheaper models and found the quality to be just as worth the price. Funnily enough, I minored in Electronic Media Management here at California State University Northridge and one of the classes I had to take had to do with audio production and the Professor had recommended Audio-Technica products, even passing out this little booklet listing their various products. Also, their microphones are good too. 

 Other than Audio-Technica, I’ve heard a lot of good thing about Sennheiser’s headphones. So if you want to take a more professional approach to the sounds you pump into your ear holes I would most definitely recommend either Audio-Technica or Senheiser headphones. Well, I guess that its for my little TED Talk/rant on headphones, I hope someone out there enjoyed reading this or at least got something out of it.
 Regards,
 -Brent Estores
