___

layout: page
title: "Blog 0 - Getting started with Jekyll"
date: 2020-09-03 08:59:30 -0000
categories: Jekyll Senior-Design

___
  
  Nvidia is releasing their new line of graphics cards this month, the GeForce RTX 3000 series. Reviewers have just received their copies and while reviewers aren’t able to comment on the cards’ specs due to Non-Disclosure Agreements, the excitement was palpable. These cards will feature Ray tracing technology which may be one of the most greatest leaps in graphical computing that we’ve seen in years.   
    Ray tracing is a rendering technique that can produce incredibly realistic lighting effects. Essentially, an algorithm can trace the path of light, and then simulate the way that the light interacts with the virtual objects it ultimately hits in the computer-generated world. This allows for dramatically more lifelike shadows and reflections, along with much-improved translucence and scattering. The algorithm takes into account where the light hits and calculates the interaction and interplay much like the human eye would process real light, shadows, and reflections. The way light hits objects in the world also affects which colors you see.
    I unfortunately will not be purchasing a 3000 series card since I just built my PC a couple of years ago and am still enjoying it’s performance capabilities as I was previously using a decade-old laptop. Funnily enough, I had spent more on the laptop than I did on my current PC but was only able to enjoy the laptops high-spec performance for a couple months as I had downloaded some software that I shouldn’t have and had to completely wipe the drive and restore the machine to its factory default settings. Thus, I was able to use my laptop again, but unfortunately I did not have the technical know-how to download the proper driver for the laptop’s graphics cards. Forcing me to go from running a game at around 200 frames-per-second to around 30 frames. This laptop would continue to accumulate hardware failures until I was finally able to custom build this PC I’m happily typing away on now. 

-Brent Estores
