___

layout: page
title: "Blog 7 - I'm an audiophile"
date: 2020-10-23 08:59:30 -0000
categories: Jekyll Senior-Design

___

  Hello and welcome back to my blog. This week I decided to continue my discussion from my previous post regarding headphones, audio files, and sound quality. My girlfriend’s birthday was this week and she asked for a certain set of headphones as her gift; the Powerbeats Pro. They cost two hundred and fifty dollars and are a part of the “Beats by Dre” series of headphones. Some things I really like about the Powerbeats Pro are that they are wireless, come in a variety of colors, and have a stylish design. However, in my opinion, the entire “Beats by Dre” series of headphones are overpriced and overhyped. Which is probably why people are attracted to Beats headphones; the hype. So major kudos to Dre and his marketing team. 

  Now I hope, I’m not coming off as just another hater, these are just my opinions based on my own personal experiences as a bit of an audiophile and my experiences from working in the music industry. You see, artists and their record labels spend hundreds, even thousands, of dollars on studio time, studio equipment, and a producer/sound designer/sound engineer to make use of all that equipment and time to get a song to sound exactly how the artist wants it to sound. This is a process called “mixing and mastering”; getting every element of the song: the kick drums, the hi-hats, snares, claps, and vocals at the exact frequencies and decibels so the song comes out as crisp and clean as possible.

  Now the problem with the “Beats by Dre” series of headphones is their bass boosting feature. Many people think that this feature is what makes the headphones so great when in fact it's the opposite; by boosting the bass you're introducing unwanted frequencies which adds distortion to whatever you are listening to and thus wasting the time, money, and effort spent by the sound engineer and artist (oh wow, it just hit me that I’m a way bigger audiophile then I thought). 
  -Brent Estores

