This week saw the much anticipated release day of Nvidia’s 3000 series of graphics cards and with it came a major launch day fiasco. Thousands of hopeful buyers waited in-front of their computer screens waiting for the exact second they could purchase their new graphics card; with many in different time-zones waiting late-at-night. However, once the time came buyers were distraught to find that the cards were sold out within literal seconds. 
There are many ideas on what could have caused this shortage in supply. Many blamed scalpers making use of bots and scripts to gain an upper-hand on users trying to get their copy of the card through legitimate means to buy the graphics cards before anyone else can and then later resell them on Ebay for double the price. 
Another popular theory, that has been corroborated by many working for retailers (for example, Best Buy) that they never received any shipment of the graphics card at all and that even those who did only received two-to-four units to sell.
If this is true. It is of my opinion that Nvidia is purposely manipulating the supply-and-demand for these cards to create a false image of really how hard it is to get one of these graphics cards.
To counter this false supply-and-demand that Nvidia has been shoving down their consumers’ throats with no remorse, users of the online community have created their own bots and scripts to counter the scalpers’ reselling the graphics cards on Ebay. These bots operate by entering in ridiculous bids that no reasonable person would try to match. 
 In addition to Nvidia’s new graphics card series, the consoles are launching their series of next generation consoles. So it looks the next generation of video game platforms has begun and I’m excited for all the fun games to come.
