___

layout: page
title: "Blog 12"
date: 2020-11-20 08:59:30 -0000
categories: Jekyll Senior-Design

___

 Hello and greetings to my final blog of the year. I thought I’d start things off with a bit of an announcement. The RGB fans and Random Access Memory sticks I ordered just arrived. The fans I ordered are the MF120 from Cooler Master which features halo duo-ring addressable RGB lighting. It comes in a pack of three one hundred twenty millimeter fans with independently-controlled light-emitting diodes, absorbing rubber pads (for less noise), and PWM Static Pressure for the computer case. The duo-ring addressable RGB Lighting features 24 individually controlled RGB  light-emitting diodes allowing for a stunning visual effect. The fan blades were designed with performance engineered hybrid static pressure in mind to tackle resistances in mesh chassis ventilation while boosting overall airflow. The absorbing rubber pads feature silent cooling technology noise reduction technology and sound absorbing materials for a quieter and longer lifespan cooling solution. While the PWM Fan Control allows for dynamic speed adjustment between six hundred fifty rates per minute to one thousand eight hundred
rates per minute which will allow me to minimize noise or maximizing air flow depending on my usage. For example, if I’m running demanding software like a game for hours at a time then I would increase the fan speed to better cool down my computer’s hardware. On the other hand, if I just have computer running idle in the background I can turn down the fan speeds to generate less noise; which is something I already do with my graphics processing unit fans. I also chose this fan because its certified compatible with my ASUS motherboard thus allowing me the choice of I want to configure the RGB color settings using software or not. 
 The Random Access Memory sticks I bought are the Corsair Vengeance RGB PRO, featuring two, eight gigabyte sticks which totals up to sixteen gigabytes, which when added to my current sticks, maxes out my random access memory to 32 gigabytes. I bought both during Cyber Monday and I also had two separate Amazon gift cards just lying around which saved me a lot of money. -Brent Estores
