___

layout: page
title: "Blog 5 - Arctis 1"
date: 2020-10-09 08:59:30 -0000
categories: Jekyll Senior-Design

___

  Hello, I am happy to announce that I am now a proud owner of a Arctis 1 wireless gaming headset from SteelSeries. The headset boasts lossless audio quality which means the audio is not compressed and degraded in any way. The Arctis 1 also features a detachable ClearCast noise canceling microphone with natural sounding clarity (certified by DIscord) and a steel-reinforced headband for long-lasting durability. 
    
  I bought this headset due to the increase of online chats and meetings as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic (and also I needed a headset I can use with my Sony Playstation). Coincidentally the last gaming headset I owned was also from SteelSeries. My previous headset was over ten-years-old and while it still functioned and the audio quality was passable enough when plugged into my PC; it was not compatible with my Playstation as it had been built for compatibility with the Xbox 360 from Microsoft instead. 

  I had bought the Arctis 1 based on the positive reviews from users on Amazon. While at first I was overwhelmed by all the cables and adapters (didn’t notice the manual taped inside to the back of the box until it was too late) I now truly appreciate the functionality and features that the Arctis 1 offers. For example, as a long-time audiophile I like that the Arctis 1 features lossless audio quality. For those who don’t know, most music you hear has been compressed which degrades the sound quality of the song(s). 

  For example, Soundcloud, while being a major platform for musicians and music-lovers, streams their songs at 128 kbps (kilobits per second). The maximum bitrate for an mp3 file is 320 kbps and when listened to side-by-side; the difference in audio quality is astounding. Using an audio spectrum analyzer (like Spek) you can see the difference in sound quality visually. Now compared to lossless audio which features 1411 kbps bitrate the difference in sound quality is massive. 
  
  -Brent Estores
