___

layout: page
title: "Blog 4-SP21 - Solid-state batteries 2"
date: 2020-03-12 08:59:30 -0000
categories: Jekyll Senior-Design

___

 Hello and welcome back to my blog. Today I’ll be continuing on the topic of solid state batteries. Many of the batteries used in modern technology were developed through the work of John B. Goodenough. His research discovered the use of cobalt oxide as a cathode in lithium-ion batteries. This was a lightweight, high energy density solution that doubled the capacity of batteries at the time. Today, at the age of 98, he continues his work in energy storage solutions, improving on his previous work on lithium-ion batteries. His latest research is on a rapid-charging and non-flammable, ceramic battery. In 2017, Goodenough and Maria Helena Braga created the “first all-solid-state battery cells that could lead to safer, fast-charging,longer-lasting rechargeable batteries for handheld mobile devices, electric cars, and stationary energy storage.” The battery created in their research used a glass doped with alkali metals as the electrolyte, making their solution non-flammable. Goodenough has contributed significantly to modern technology and continues to guide us into the future. 
 Solid-state batteries are seemingly better than conventional batteries in every aspect. They can charge in minutes rather than hours, they are more than double the capacity of current offerings, they have an operating temperature of around -40C to 170C, and as stated earlier, they are non-flammable. The inorganic compound used in Goodenough’s variant results in higher ionic conductivity. This is what allows the battery to have improved capacity and chargespeed. Additionally, these batteries can discharge and recharge for more than 23,000 cycles.In comparison, a lithium-ion battery can cycle 1,000 times and operates in the temperature range between -20C to 60C. Moreover, the cost of these batteries can be reduced by using sodium as a replacement for lithium. Therefore, solid-state batteries outperform lithium-ion batteries over virtually every metric. - Brent Estores

