___

layout: page
title: "Blog 2-SP21 - Blockchain-Enabled Voting Part 2"
date: 2021-03-05 08:59:30 -0000
categories: Jekyll Senior-Design

___
    
   Hello and welcome back to my blog. Today I’ll be continuing the topic of Blockchain-Enabled-Voting; Russia, South Korea, Estonia, and Sierra Leona have already successfully deployed BEV technology in different capacities: community, corporate, local government, and national government voting. Although the votes are for relatively inconsequential matters, countries can eventually scale the technology to handle political office and legislation. In each country, the application of BEV exemplified the benefits of blockchain technology. In Moscow, Russia, the feedback expressed that it was more immediate, convenient, trustworthy, and auditable. In March 2017, South Korea successfully deployed the decentralized system for community projects. Estonia has shown the system's ability to authenticate users for corporate-governance-related decisions. Also, Sierra Leone used the technology to provide a partial tally of the March 2018 general election results.
   The application of BEV in these early adopter countries has shown the benefits of this system. BEV addresses voter tampering because blockchain records the votes accurately, permanently, securely, and transparently. Also, the technology protects the voters' identity but still enables their vote to be verified. Because BEV is online, it promotes accessibility and thus more voter participation. The results of a vote can also be accessed much faster and at potentially lower costs. The other benefits of BEV are that it eliminates ambiguity, promotes transparency and clarity, and provides more privacy and security.
   The challenges of BEV are typically in the public trust in the system and the technology's immaturity. Although availability could be improved, broadband access and digital user skills can inhibit its accessibility. Furthermore, because the innovation is relatively new, software quality and scalability are a concern. There are not enough examples to convince authorities and the general public to adopt further implementations. However, the biggest challenge is getting public officials' support because this technology challenges the system that got them elected in the first place. -Brent Estores
