___

layout: page
title: "Blog 3-SP21 - Solid-state batteries"
date: 2021-03-12 08:59:30 -0000
categories: Jekyll Senior-Design

___

   Hello and welcome back to my block. This week, I’ll be covering solid-state batteries. With the advent of renewable energy and the ubiquity of portable devices, energy-storing technologies are becoming increasingly more necessary. The most notable of these new technologies are solid-state batteries. Current battery solutions are of the lithium-ion variety,using a traditional liquid electrolyte. However, as shown in the Samsung Note 7, these liquid electrolytes are hazardous for their flammable potential. Solid-state batteries resolve many of the shortcomings of modern batteries and are the expected successor to the lithium-ion battery. 
   The typical construction of a battery cell consists of an anode, a cathode, a separator, andan electrolyte. The standard anode is a graphite compound while the cathode is a lithium-ioncomposite, hence the name lithium-ion battery. The separator is a permeable membranepositioned between the anode and cathode that helps prevent short circuits. As the namesuggests, this component ensures the separation of the electrodes while allowing the flow oflithium ions. Finally, the electrolyte is the chemical medium that allows the flow of electronsfrom anode to cathode during discharge and the inverse during recharge. This substance isusually a liquid or polymer gel.
   The lithium-ion battery was revolutionary for its time but like all new technologies, hasits drawbacks. This battery is subject to aging through continued charge and discharge cycles,which creates dendrites, tree-like structures, between the anode and the electrolyte [1]. These areformed by the clumping of lithium ions. This eventually causes a decrease of charge capacity,and through continued use, can puncture the separator resulting in a short-circuit. A problem like this is exacerbated because of the flammable substance used for the electrolyte. That is whyresearch into alternative solutions must continue to advance. Solid-state batteries are the mostpromising solution, as they resolve the flaws of ordinary batteries by replacing the liquidelectrolyte with a solid one. Instead, ceramics, glass, sulfides, or solid polymers are used. -Brent Estores
