___

layout: page
title: "Blog 1-SP21 - Blockchain-Enabled Voting"
date: 2021-09-03 08:59:30 -0000
categories: Jekyll Senior-Design

___

  Hi and welcome back to my blog. Today I’ll be talking about Blockchain-Enabled-Voting. Blockchain is the innovation that will enable transactions and verifications in the future; it is the underlying technology used in cryptocurrency. Blockchain is a database that chronologically links blocks of data together. The primary use of this innovation is to use the chained database as a ledger for transactions. This technology will disrupt numerous industries. Futurists and innovators are targeting electronic voting (e-voting) as one of the sectors to apply blockchain. Like cryptocurrency, the idea is to give each voter a verifiable credential; in Bitcoin, this credential is called a "wallet." Each voter will have one "coin" to represent one vote, and the act of voting will exchange the coin from the voter to the candidate's wallet.The voters can only spend their currency once. However, the option to change their vote is allowable within a given deadline. Blockchain-enabled-voting (BEV), like any new invention, has its benefits and challenges. Therefore, countries must determine its feasibility once they develop further implementations.
    Blockchain-enabled-voting (BEV) addresses two of the main concerns of online voting: voter access and voter fraud. BEV still allows eligible voters to anonymously cast their ballots, but the vote can also always be verified. Blockchain utilizes a personal ID system and an encrypted key to verify transactions. Even the biometrics available in smartphones can help identify a potential voter. Another critical feature of blockchain is the public ledger that allows authenticating a transaction. The public ledger acts as a permanent, immutable record that prevents abuse of the system because the network of users can validate the ledger. Blockchain has a built-in audit system that ensures that no vote has been changed or removed and that no fraudulent and illegitimate votes have been added. Thank you for tuning in this week, I’ll be continuing this topic next week’s blog post. Look forward to it!
-Brent Estores
