___

layout: page
title: "Blog 9-SP21 - The Advancement of Technology and Reducing Carbon Emissions (cont.)"
date: 2021-04-30 08:59:30 -0000
categories: Jekyll Senior-Design

___

 Hello and welcome back to my blog. Today I’ll be continuing my discussion on how development and advancement in technology can reduce carbon emissions. The advantage of solar is that it is virtually an unlimited clean energy source. Dedicated solar farms are not the only option; countries can distribute solar panels throughout residential and commercial areas and integrate them into existing technologies. The disadvantage of solar is that it cannot generate electricity at night or in cloudy climates, and it requires an energy storage solution. These drawbacks do not deter solar progress, as the technology will undergo further cost reductions and efficiency improvements in the future.
 Although alternative energy sources are necessary to minimize climate change, they are not enough to reach zero-net carbon emissions by 2050. It is seemingly impossible to convert all power needs to alternative energy sources. Planting trees could help capture some of the CO2 emissions, and new technologies can function in the same manner. Many solutions need to be incorporated in combination to fight climate change.
 Now, carbon removal is the focused method for responding to climate change. Companies are increasingly developing systems that can capture CO2 directly from the atmosphere, allowing them to recycle the waste for additional energy or additional products. Direct air capture is the most promising solution, but this technology requires further optimization for efficient energy consumption. After the technology captures CO2, different avenues transport it to safe geological storage, where it is less likely to be reemitted into the atmosphere. Some key enabling contributions that help to facilitate the widespread commercial deployment of CCS are expected to include cost reductions for CO2 capture technology and improved techniques for monitoring stored CO2. 
 That’s it for me this week, thank you for reading, and tune in again next week for more! - Brent Estores 
