___

layout: page
title: "Blog 6-SP21 - The Advancement of Technology and Reducing Carbon Emissions"
date: 2021-04-09 08:59:30 -0000
categories: Jekyll Senior-Design

___

 Hello and welcome back to my blog. Today I’ll be continuing my discussion on how development and advancement in technology can reduce carbon emissions. Some energy sources such as hydroelectric power are mature technologies with little room for improvement but need to expand to potential locations. Then there are renewable energies like solar, which will likely be the prevalent carbon-free option. Modern innovations of these technologies improve upon efficiency, but further research and development are needed. Some systems may have ecological impacts other than carbon emissions; however, each needs to be scaled to power an increasingly demanding world.
 One of the first energy sources developed utilized the power of water. These power systems typically use water reservoirs at higher elevations to store energy and a turbine to generate electricity. Dams are a type of storage hydropower that exemplifies this approach. Pumped storage hydropower modifies this method by pumping water back to the higher reservoir, acting as a battery in the process. A modern storage-less variant is called run-of-river hydropower, which diverts a partial river to create a channel through a turbine.
 Hydropower exists in many parts of the world and is often the central resource for energy. According to the World Energy Council, in 2008, there were 45,000 large dams and many more at small scales. These hydroelectric power plants generated 800 gigawatts and supplied nearly one-fifth of the electricity consumed worldwide. The International Hydropower Association (IHA) asserts that costs of installation are $1 million to $5 million per megawatt of capacity, $0.03-0.10 per kilowatt-hour for electricity, and potential capacity that can exceed 2.4 terawatts with enough investment. Hydropower's advantages are that it is a fuel-less technology that requires no fuel-extracting or fuel transporting infrastructure, meaning it replaces the energy needed to mine, transport, and burn fossil fuels. - Brent Estores
