___

layout: page
title: "Blog 8-SP21 - The Advancement of Technology and Reducing Carbon Emissions (cont.)"
date: 2021-04-23 08:59:30 -0000
categories: Jekyll Senior-Design

___

 Hello and welcome back to my blog. Today I’ll be continuing my discussion on how development and advancement in technology can reduce carbon emissions. Hydropower can quickly respond to changing electricity demands because it effectively stores energy like a battery: with the water's potential at higher elevations. However, not every region can take advantage of a water body; this power source is heavily dependent on location. There are also significant space requirements, considerable investments into planning and relocation, and ecological impacts. For example, dams become barriers to migrating fish and sediment build-up can shorten their operating life. Nevertheless, engineers can make marginal improvements, and countries should utilize available locations to reduce global carbon emissions.
 The most renewable energy source that countries can exploit is the sun. Every hour, the earth absorbs roughly 430 quintillion Joules of energy from the sun, exceeding the 410 quintillion Joules humans consume in a year [6]. At the moment, solar panels can convert over 20% of the sun's energy, which offers 400 watts per hour. This energy may seem insignificant, but as the systems are scaled to cover more space, the solar panel systems can generate considerable amounts of power.
 Solar panels use materials that absorb photons of light to release electrons, generating electricity. There are two solar technology types: solar panels using photovoltaics (PV) and concentrated solar-thermal power (CSP). CSP technologies use mirrors to reflect and concentrate sunlight onto receivers that collect solar energy and convert it to heat. This heat is then used to power a turbine to produce electricity.
The solar cost includes manufacturing solar cells and installation, which exceeds other energy sources at $0.17 per kilowatt-hour. With the earth's surface receiving 100,000 terawatts from the sun, even if global systems capture 1% at 20% efficiency, this would give 200 terawatts of energy every hour. -Brent Estores
