___

layout: page
title: "Blog 6-SP21 - The Advancement of Technology and Reducing Carbon Emissions"
date: 2021-04-09 08:59:30 -0000
categories: Jekyll Senior-Design

___

    Hello and welcome back to my blog. Today I’ll be continuing my discussion on how development and advancement in technology can reduce carbon emissions. Alternative energy sources reduce emissions by 1.7 quadrillion tonnes (1018) of CO2 from the total power generated. Carbon capture systems are an additional innovation to reduce carbon emissions, removing tonnes of CO2 from the atmosphere. Although one method may be more effective than another, the purpose is to reach carbon neutrality; therefore, each solution is necessary. 
    Carbon dioxide (CO2) is the primary greenhouse gas in the atmosphere, mostly generated through human activity. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) estimates that in 2018, humans accounted for 81.3% of the carbon emissions in the atmosphere. All human activity, collectively each year, generates over 50 billion tonnes of CO2. These emissions exist because of the global energy requirements. Industries and individuals need power for electricity, heat, and transportation. According to the Energy Information Administration (EIA), in 2019, the United States consumed over 100.2 quadrillion British thermal units (BTU) of heat. These energy needs will only exacerbate in the future.
    Most of the energy produced comes from fossil fuels, and the waste created is overwhelmingly CO2.  Through the combustion of fossil fuels, CO2 is the principal byproduct because it accounts for 60-90 percent of the mass burned. These emissions worsen the greenhouse effect that causes climate change and will ultimately result in drastic and rapid changes to the planet. The world's level of CO2 generation needs to reduce drastically to reach net-zero carbon emissions. The goal for humanity is to achieve zero global greenhouse emissions by 2050 to limit climate warming to 1.5℃. As a result, the first response to climate change was to invest in alternative energy sources, some of which predate fossil fuels. -Brent Estores.  
