___

layout: page
title: "Blog 9-SP21 - The Advancement of Technology and Reducing Carbon Emissions (fin.)"
date: 2021-04-30 08:59:30 -0000
categories: Jekyll Senior-Design

___

 Hello and welcome back to my blog. Today I’ll be wrapping up my discussion on how development and advancement in technology can reduce carbon emissions. The CO2 separation technologies used are synthetic membranes like polymers and ceramic, combustion using pure oxygen, carbon scrubbing (absorption) that captures the substance throughout the whole medium, and adsorption that distributes throughout the surface. The standard industrial carbon capture technology is absorption with amines, a derivative of ammonia, and the transportation method used is pipelines. However, the challenge of CCS is that it requires additional energy; therefore, the initial cost and valuation must be considered a worthy investment by those incorporating it.
 According to the IEA, 21 global operating facilities in 2020 captured 40 million tonnes of CO2. With 44 more facilities under development, the capture capacity would more than triple to 130 megatons per year. These are significant strides in reducing the world's carbon emissions, making the net-zero goal by 2050 seem more feasible.
 The global energy needs will only increase as more of the world becomes industrialized. However, with the urgent need to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions, countries must implement several solutions to minimize climate change. Although hydroelectric power can have marginal efficiency improvements, and utilization is disproportionate by region, countries must expand to available locations. Governments should also invest heavily in the expansion of solar energy and solar capture efficiency. Carbon capture is not a replacement of available technologies but an innovation that supplements them, including traditional fossil fuel companies. With a combination of hydropower, solar power, carbon capture, and other solutions not discussed, reducing 50 billion tonnes of CO2 to zero seems possible. Thank you for sticking to the end and I hope you found this interesting and informative! A future with reduced carbon emissions is possible with time and effort! -Brent Estores

