___

layout: page
title: "Blog 5-SP21 - Solid-state batteries 3 and Reducing Carbon Emissions"
date: 2021-04-02 08:59:30 -0000
categories: Jekyll Senior-Design

___

 Hello and welcome back to another edition of my blog. Today, I’ll be wrapping up my discussion on solid-state batteries and I’ll also be moving on to my next topic, how development and advancement in technology can reduce carbon emissions. As it is for all innovations, the disadvantage of solid-state batteries is the manufacturing costs. However, this process will eventually become simpler and more scalable with continued research. And this technology is promising enough that companies are willing to invest heavily in research and development. For example, companies like Samsung, Toyota, Mercedez, andVolkswagen are nearing the release of a product using this innovation.
 The many advantages of solid-state batteries are what makes this technology revolutionary. This battery can operate in significantly cold or hot temperatures, delivers high energy density, and uses safer non-toxic materials. It allows faster charging, has a longer cyclelife, and can potentially cost less to manufacture. This will allow our mobile devices to be more powerful and last significantly longer, it allows electric vehicles to have longer range and overtake internal-combustion engines, and it allows renewable energy farms to store large quantities of energy and optimize our overall energy consumption. Thus, this innovation is remarkable and should garner more attention for its continued progress.
 The excessive carbon emissions that global industrial processes continue to produce is an existential threat to humanity. Scientists, environmentalists, and engineers have developed alternative energy sources, hydroelectric power (hydropower) and solar power, and carbon capture and storage (carbon capture) technologies to reduce the world's carbon footprint and mitigate this threat. Hydropower and solar power are fuel-less technologies that have significant potential in scaling their capacity, although there are unknown ecological impacts on rivers or deserts. Any energy generated using these alternatives saves the energy costs to mine, transport, and burn fossil fuels. -Brent Estores
